# AIH
ASEAN - India Hackathon  - Black Box Device

Team Members:
Dhinesh Rajasekaran (Team Leader), Aditya Mandil, Wei Ching, Rendy Poy, Souvanny Banchong, Tran Dong Phuong

Mentors:
Mr. Seavpor from Cambodia and Mrs.Wida from Brunei

About:
The finalist teams of SIH 2020 hardware edition and winners of SIH 2020 software edition were eligible to participate in this ASEAN – India Hackathon which is international level hackathon organised by AICTE Innovation Cell India in coordination with 10 other Asian countries (Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Laos, Myanmar, Cambodia and Vietnam). We are given problem statements common to the Asian countries and have to develop and innovate a solution for the same. We are put in a team of international students from the different countries mentioned above. Since we were one of the SIH 2020 Hardware edition finalists we were eligible for participating in this hackathon where first round was an online test about Machine Learning. The test has to be taken individually by all team members & I was selected for next round which is an interview. I got selected in the interview as well and was then allotted a problem statement in the theme blue economy and was assigned a team of 6 members. (Myself and Aditya from India, Wei Ching and Rendy from Singapore, Banchong from Laos and Phuong from Vietnam). After various training & mentoring sessions the hackathon was scheduled on Feb 1, 2 & 3 and valedictory ceremony on Feb 4. There were totally 11 problem statements and 5 teams for each problem statement. Totally around 100 students were selected from India to participate in this hackathon. Each problem statement will have its Winner and Runner up. We secured runner up position and cash prize of 1500$ and was felicitated by Prof. Anil D. Sahasrabudhe & Education minister of India.

Objective/tools/technologies:
Our problem statement is “Enhancing Coastal Security”. We had to develop a system which could categorise vessels or ships moving in ocean within and beyond 12 Nautical Miles (NM) into registered (belonging to that coastal state) and unregistered (Not belonging to that respective coastal state – foreign ship). The ships have to be categorised based on their country of origin. We developed a low-cost hardware module which could track a ship’s location and send it to a digital dashboard in the coast guard control room from any remote location in the ocean. It is done using satellite communication and Mobile Adhoc Networks (MANET protocol). The hardware unit also sends other essential information like ship’s name, owner’s name, course & heading of ship, speed, IMO number, MMSI number, Distance of ship from coast, Weight & Size of ship, Temperature & Humidity and Status of ship. The module is low cost and completely solar powered and has an emergency SOS button for fisher man, Tamper detection alarm, Emergency backup power supply and provision for external power supply as well. The module can be retrofitted to any vessel starting from a larger cargo ship to a small fishing boat. A software dashboard was developed which would communicate with the hardware unit and display the data received in neat and visually attractive manner. It was developed with a simple UI and is easy to use. Live tracking of ships, satellite view & radar view of the coast is displayed in the software dashboard.
